What is AI ?
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a branch of Science which deals with helping machines
find solutions to complex problems in a more human-like fashion.
This generally involves borrowing characteristics from human intelligence, and
applying them as algorithms in a computer friendly way.
A more or less flexible or efficient approach can be taken depending on the
requirements established, which influences how artificial the intelligent behavior
appears
Artificial intelligence can be viewed from a variety of perspectives.
From the perspective of intelligence
artificial intelligence is making machines "intelligent" -- acting as we would
expect people to act.
The inability to distinguish computer responses from human responses
is called the Turing test.
Intelligence requires knowledge
Expert problem solving - restricting domain to allow including
significant relevant knowledge
From a business perspective AI is a set of very powerful tools, and
methodologies for using those tools to solve business problems.
From a programming perspective, AI includes the study of symbolic
programming, problem solving, and search.
Typically AI programs focus on symbols rather than numeric
processing.
Problem solving - achieve goals.
Search - seldom access a solution directly. Search may include a
variety of techniques.
AI programming languages include:
LISP, developed in the 1950s, is the early programming language
strongly associated with AI. LISP is a functional programming language with
procedural extensions. LISP (LISt Processor) was specifically designed for 
processing heterogeneous lists -- typically a list of symbols. Features of LISP
are run- time type checking, higher order functions (functions that have other
functions as parameters), automatic memory management (garbage collection)
and an interactive environment.
The second language strongly associated with AI is PROLOG.
PROLOG was developed in the 1970s. PROLOG is based on first order logic.
PROLOG is declarative in nature and has facilities for explicitly limiting the
search space.
Object-oriented languages are a class of languages more recently used
for AI programming. Important features of object-oriented languages include:
concepts of objects and messages, objects bundle data and methods for
manipulating the data, sender specifies what is to be done receiver decides
how to do it, inheritance (object hierarchy where objects inherit the attributes
of the more general class of objects). Examples of object-oriented languages
are Smalltalk, Objective C, C++. Object oriented extensions to LISP (CLOS -
Common LISP Object System) and PROLOG (L&O - Logic & Objects) are
also used.
Artificial Intelligence is a new electronic machine that stores large amount of
information and process it at very high speed
The computer is interrogated by a human via a teletype It passes if the human cannot
tell if there is a computer or human at the other end
The ability to solve problems
It is the science and engineering of making intelligent machines, especially intelligent
computer programs. It is related to the similar task of using computers to understand
human intelligence
